[Music]
hey welcome from our hypothetically
interesting but I'd never do it myself
department comes this fun fact rich
question what if you stopped going
outside for a year yeah better keep some
room freshener handy you know human
beings aren't biologically designed to
be cooped up people need to see the Sun
be with nature and stretch their legs so
if you're stuck at home for a year or
you're a homebody and wish you never had
to leave you can bet you would undergo a
dramatic transformation keep watching to
discover what's most likely to happen
and don't forget to click the subscribe
button and turn on notifications to join
us on the bright side of life so what
would happen to you if you were indoors
bound well you would suffer from a
vitamin D deficiency according to a 2014
report published in the aged and aging
Journal it's estimated that 1 billion
people have a vitamin D deficiency
around the world and what's all the fuss
about vitamin D well vitamin D is
involved with several systems in your
body it ensures that your bones and
muscles are strong and that you have a
stable blood pressure it can also boost
weight loss and reduce the risk of heart
disease and multiple sclerosis before
you panic because you've never taken
vitamin D and rush to the pharmacy to
buy supplements chances are that if you
step outside every day you get it
naturally from the Sun since 85 to 95
percent of people's vitamin D comes from
sunlight anyone who stays indoors too
much can experience a vitamin D
deficiency which puts them at risk for
weak bones which can lead to breaks
muscle pains impaired ability to fight
off infection and even hair loss a
little vitamin D deficiency is normal if
you live in a very cold area that sees
strong winters and lots of cloud
coverage you probably experience lower
vitamin D levels during winter
there are some people who should avoid
staying indoors as they have a higher
risk of a vitamin D deficiency if you
are obese elderly suffer from chronic
illnesses or are an adolescent you
should head outside often to avoid
negative health consequences you'd
imagine that a person staying indoors
could just take vitamin D supplements
but there is a debate as to whether
supplements are effective or not
according to Professor Simon Griffin at
Cambridge University tablets don't have
that much of an effect and a Sun bed or
UV lamp would be a better choice but
exposing yourself to a UV lamp for a
year isn't a good idea since they can
cause skin cancer you'll gain weight
have you ever stopped to think about how
much incidental exercise you get from
simply going about your day you walk to
your car you might walk at work you push
the card at the grocery store you head
out during your lunch break to grab a
snack and you pick up the kids in every
one of those instances you get exercise
without thinking about it if you spend a
year at home simply moving from room to
room without ever breaking a sweat it's
likely you'll gain weight if you've ever
worked from home doing computer work or
had to spend a big chunk of time sick in
bed you've probably experienced how a
lack of mobility can make the scales go
up plus are you like the thousands of
people who struggle with overeating
while at home heading out to work might
be a chore sometimes but the bright side
can be that you're not at home stuffing
yourself with all the readily available
and tasty items in your fridge uh-huh so
between the lack of mobility and
overeating you can imagine what a full
year can do to your figure your mental
health will take a toll if a single day
inside is enough to make you feel blue
maybe you can't envision how you could
survive an entire year indoors for some
people a single day in can take a toll
on their mental health making them feel
a lack of energy causing brain fog
leading to depression when a single day
can do that you'll understand what will
happen if it's a year long thing so why
is it that so many people feel sad when
they stay indoors vitamin D comes into
play again and you can see this most
clearly during winter a lot of people
experience the winter blues that feeling
of depression and sadness you get when
summer is over and it's time to wrap
yourself up and spend more time indoors
the feeling isn't in your head it's the
real thing and it's called seasonal
affective disorder or sa D sad boy do
they nail that several studies including
one published in 2014 by researchers at
the University of Georgia suggest that
symptoms of sad are due to low vitamin D
levels
someone who stays indoors for a year
could experience the symptoms of sad all
year you can bet that they'd lose
interest in the things they once cared
about and feel sluggish and depressed
almost every day besides sad
you might also suffer from social
anxiety if you spend a year indoors by
yourself you might have a difficult time
interacting with people or feeling like
you're part of a community afterward
this can make you feel lonely and make
you withdraw more into your home you'll
miss out on the perks from nature have
you ever noticed how a problem can seem
overwhelming when you're at home but if
you take a walk get a little Sun and
expose yourself to nature the problem
seems more manageable many studies show
how connecting to nature can improve
mental health if you stay indoors for a
year you'd be missing out on all of
nature's benefits including a stable
mood less anxiety and better memory a
2015 study conducted by researchers at
Stanford and published in Proceedings of
the National Academy of Science showed
that people who walk in a natural
setting for 90 minutes saw a decreased
activity in the part of the brain
connected with depression if you were
stuck inside you might think that
stuffing your home with
all sorts of exotic plants will do the
trick but not so if you're still
surrounded by an urban setting you won't
get the benefits your sleep cycle might
become irregular between feeling blue
feelings of sluggishness less energy
more anxiety and weight gain oh boy
you'll probably want to sleep more even
though you might not be expending a lot
of energy throughout the day the
feelings of fatigue associated with
feeling depressed can make you oversleep
or ironically give you insomnia because
you're so tired
if you're stuck at home with no
particular reason to get up at a regular
time each day and you don't follow any
particular sleep routine your body's
inner clock will be out of sorts and so
will you your inner clock or circadian
rhythm isn't just responsible for
telling you when to sleep and when to
wake it also guides when your blood
pressure rises throughout the day when
you experience bowel movements and when
you feel most alert so if you're indoors
for a long time without a regular sleep
schedule you might find yourself the
most alert right when you wanted to
sleep alternatively you might feel tired
all day long you might have experienced
jetlag when you travel so you know the
feeling of wanting to collapse into bed
even though the day's lovely and the Sun
is bright when staying indoors causes
irregular sleep it can feel like being
in a constant state of jetlag on the
bright side your finances might see a
little upgrade your utility bill is
likely to go up but you wouldn't have to
spend money on gas or public transport
you'd most likely eat at home which
means less expense from eating out and
since you're not heading out you
wouldn't have to spend money attending
social events like meeting friends at a
restaurant and attending birthday
parties at the end of a year of staying
indoors your pockets might be a little
more loaded with cash but you will
probably have gained weight have big
eggs under your eyes and look a little
worse for wear though you could recover
from all of it pulling off being indoors
without any negative health effects
would involve a solid sleep routine
regular interaction with other human
beings an adequate at-home workout and
lots of foods with vitamin D you might
have already come to this conclusion but
it seems that with all things considered
if you really don't have to stay indoors
for a full year it's best not to do it
even if you love being a homebody and
your home is the ultimate place of
comfort and happiness for you try to
head outside for at least 20 minutes
every day so that your physical and
mental health can remain in the best
shape so tell us bright ciders have you
ever considered staying indoors for a
year let us know about it in the comment
section don't forget to give this video
a like share it with your friends and
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side
[Music]